High in this video we're going to look at something called Paschall functions.
Now the idea behind partial functions is actually quite simple.
It's really how can we reduce the number of required arguments when calling a function and there's various
reasons why we might want to do this that will get into later.
But really it boils down to is there a way that we can call a function which let's say has three arguments.
So for example let's say we have a function my funk that has three mandatory positional arguments A
B and C that does something with those three arguments.
And this guy's going to print them out.
Can we somehow rework this so that my phunk can only take two parameters.
In other words we'll need to provide some kind of value maybe a default you can think of it as a default
value for A.
Now my phone doesn't have a default.
So how can we do this.
Well pretty simply we could do it this way.
We could say def efen.
So now we create a new function which takes in two parameters.
Let's say B and C and it's going to return it's going to call my phunk it's going to return the value
that's return from my phunk when we set a equal to 10 and then B and C passed in as normal.
So you can see we've reduced the number of arguments needed to call my phunk by 1 because now we've
specified a value for 10 with pre-determine what that value should be.
Now of course we could do something a little more fancy we could maybe put in a equals 10 in here but
of course now we can't put it in front so we'd have to put it at the back.
So I'd say B.Com a C comma equals 10.
And we could now call FNY just b and c and then put in here we could do that.
We'll see how that works actually Liron are using partial functions.
But now if we call F-in of 20 come 30 we're going to get the output 10 20 30 because a was set to 10.
So we've reduced the number of arguments needed to call my funk and my phone still needs three arguments.
OK that's told that we can't change but the way we call my funk we don't have to specify three arguments.
Now we can specify two because with kind of preset what one of them would be we can also use a lambda
to do the same thing.
So in this case all we're going to do here is we're going to do the same thing we're going to take in
two arguments and then we're going to call my funk and we're going to pass in 10 for a.
And then the B and C arguments will get passed to the B and C arguments of my func.
So exactly the same thing as what we did in this def here.
And so the output will again be 10 20 30.
So that's pretty standard.
You can do things that way.
We'll see why you may want to decrease the number of arguments and pre-determine are preset what an
argument might be ahead of time.
But you can also do it using the partial function that's available in the phunk tools module.
So this function takes in first parameter is the callable that you want to call.
So in this case it's my funk right.
We want to call my funk and then you specify values for parameters of my func.
In this case I've only specified one in keeping of what we had over here.
So this one here is a positional argument.
So this is the first positional argument it will get passed in as the first positional argument of my
phunk.
So now I can call f with 20 and 30.
So now 20 and 30 will get passed as the second and third positional arguments seeing that 10 over here
is the first one and it's going to call my phunk therefore with 10 20 and 30.
And so our i'll put his 20 30 same as before.
So the syntax is maybe just a little simpler a little clearer here you don't have the lambda or a def
coming in between.
It's maybe more straightforward.
Now you can handle more complex arguments.
Let's say that we have my funk that takes in and two mandatory positional arguments an arbitrary number
of positional arguments to keyword only arguments mandatory have no defaults and then a variable number
of keyword arguments.
So here again my function is just going to print the stuff out so now let's say we want to reduce the
number of arguments that we're sending to my funk.
So we want to be able to call my funk but with less arguments that means we're going to have to provide
values for those arguments that we're not going to specify.
So in this case I'm going to pick 10 for eight.
So the first positional argument is going to go into the first positional argument.
So 10 will go into a B which you'll notice is the forced positional argument of f is going to be passed
in as the second positional argument of my phunk then Starns.
I'm just going to take stands as is and pass it as here.
Basically Starns as well.
Next I'm going to specify an actual value for k 1.
So you'll notice I'm not requesting K-1 here.
OK.
Instead K-1 I'm going to set it to the value of A and I'm going to pass that value as the keyword value
and then Fuquay to.
I'm just going to get whatever the other person sent in is the argument here for this K to keyword when
I pass that and I'm going to do the same thing with the style star arguments I'm going to just pass
them straight into my funk.
So you'll notice that what we've done here is we've reduced the need to when we're calling My phunk
to specify a and K-1 we've now reduced it by two arguments.
So now if I say F equals Paschall my phunk 10 and K one equals a.
This will achieve the same thing.
So whatever we had here we'll get essentially done here as well.
So you can see now it's actually a little simpler.
Now the syntax it's more visibly simpler than in the previous example which was very simple.
So let's take a look.
Also when we're handling more complex arguments let's say we have this function here called power which
takes a basin and exponent and it's just going to return the base to the power of the exponent.
So two to the power of three or three to the bar of 1.5.
Things like that.
OK.
And I want to create a new function.
So I'm going to use partial.
It's going to create a new function.
It's going to take and power as the function the callable and it's going to specify that the exponent
is 2.
Now you'll notice power is actually taking it to position along humans.
But of course we can always pass arguments even positional arguments in Python using keyword values.
In this case I'm specifying that exponent is to.
So what I've eliminated from the call to par is the exponent.
I can do the same thing with Cube.
We can say it's a partial of both the exponent equal to 3.
So now if we call square 5 What's happening.
Well five is a positional argument and we're not specifying it with a keyword.
It's just a positional argument.
It's the first positional argument it's going to get thrown to the first positional argument of power
exponent which is defined here will get passed to exponent.
So we've satisfied what power means we gave it one positional argument and one named argument exponent
which is going to go into exponent here.
So when we call square of 5 we actually get 25.
And when we call cube 5 we get 75 because it's basically pre-determined that the exponent is going to
be 3 knife you want you can also specify base equals five you can pass in instead of using this as a
positional argument you can pass it in as a named argument as well.
That's fine right because we have this named argument followed by this named argument.
So that's fine too.
Now the way.
Because because we can pass Inamed named arguments and because we have keyword value arguments as well
in the more general cases you have to be careful because we could do the following.
We could say square 5 or basic rules five comma exponent equals three.
What's happening here is that we're essentially going to override the value of exponent that's defined
in cube.
It will actually honor that.
So when we call square sorry and square so square has an exponent of 2 when we call square here we're
saying no no.
Make the exponent 3.
So you can still override the values.
And in this case we'd get 75.
So just be aware that you can do that and we'll see an example of where this might actually be useful.
We'll see that in the coding section.
Now one other point that you should be really careful with is when you use variables when you're creating
partials So there's a similar issue that arises to the one that we had when we were using default values
for arguments.
Remember that the default value for an argument was kind of fixed once the function was defined right
was created not where it was run.
It was when it was created.
So we have the same issue here.
Let's go back to my funk three parameters a b and c..
Let's say we have a equals 10 and now we say F is equal to Paschall of my phunk comma a.
What's happening here is that the memory address that is pointing to is baked into the Paschall not
the label a.
Right.
Remember what's getting passed in here is not the label it's the memory address the reference that it
has.
So be careful because it's 10 really that's coded into Paschall not a so difficult 10 F-off 20 comma
30 would get as expected.
10:23.
But if we now set a set equal to 100 what have we done took a while as remember just the label was pointing
to 10.
Now A's pointing to 100.
So eight points two different memory address but the partials four points to the original object which
was 10.
So if we call now f 20 and 3 do not expect to see 100 come a 20 come authorty come through you'll still
get 10 20 30.
So just be careful with that.
It's a similar problem to what we've seen in the past.
Now if any is mutable let's say it's a list let's say that a was a list for example.
Then when we call my funkin a right writes so not is going to be a reference to that list.
If I change the pointer of the list if I change eight point to a new list then yeah everything will
behave as I just described.
But if I append something to the list while the memory address that was pointing to in that partial
therefore is using that hasn't changed.
So if you can change the contents of the object without changing the memory address reference then you're
then you know you'll find you're going to see those changes.
Again we've seen that when we're looking at are given defaults.
Same thing happened there.
All right so let's switch to some code and let's see all this in action.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you in a bit.